Switzerland is software for testing ISPs, networks and firewalls for
modification or interference with the traffic travelling over them.

Switzerland is "passive" testing software; it doesn't generate traffic, but
checks that traffic generated by other software is being received as it was
sent.

Switzerland uses a client/server architecture.  In the current version,
tests automatically occur between all of the clients connected to a given
server.  Any packets that are exchanged between the clients will be tested.
EFF runs a default server at switzerland.eff.org:7778 (we expect it'll crash
and misbehave a bit for early versions of the code), but you can run your
own servers elsewhere if you wish.

Included below are some important FAQs about Firewalls, Privacy and Security
below.  Once you have finished reading those and installed switzerland, you can
run it like this:

sudo switzerland-client -s switzerland.eff.org

(you can also run your own switzerland server and specify it with the -s flag)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Does Swizterland Work with NAT ("Network Address Translation") Firewalls?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes and no and sometimes.  Switzerland is aware of the changes to IP
addresses and port numbers that NAT firewalls normally make, and will not
report those as modifications to the underlying traffic.

But it turns out that many NAT firewalls -- and especially those little
wireless router devices that everyone uses -- make other undocumented
modifications to the traffic travelling through them, beyond the minimum
required to be a NAT firewall.  As a result, Swizterland clients that are
behind firewalls, or talking to machines that are behind firewalls, will
often detect and report these modifications to traffic.

It is important not to confuse this kind of packet modification behaviour by
your firewall or another client's firewall with interference by an ISP.  If you
want to preform reliable tests of an ISP, you'll need to plug your computer
directly into your DSL box or cable modem, and only consider results obtained
with non-firewalled peers.  Switzerland will tell you which other clients are
behind NAT firewalls.

In the future we may be able to build a database of the different models of
common NAT firewalls and the things they do, which would allow preliminary
tests to be done through the firewall.  At the moment, for instance, we
think that devices running the DD-WRT open firmware make no unexpected
modifications to traffic, so you can run ISP tests throught them, but we
aren't sure of that yet.  A firewall-free machine will always be necessary
for confirming test results!

It is theoretically possible that interference can be performed by non-NAT
firewalls.  These are most likely to be encountered on corporate and
university networks.  Switzerland will detect this as interference by an
intermediary.  It isn't a bug, it's a feature.  Remember, if you see
interference, run a traceroute to the other machine.  The interference could
be occuring at any of the steps along the way.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
What are the Privacy implications of running Switzerland?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Do not run Switzerland on a computer that is exchanging sensitive data over
unencrypted connections!!!

The early versions of Switzerland report which IP addresses your machine is
talking to, and which ports it's talking on, and cryptographic summary
information, to a server.  Whenever the server detects possible modification
or interference, the client will send log portions of the actual traffic to
the server, which will log those fragments.  Therefore it is likely that
running Switzerland will result in portions of your unencrpyted
communications being logged at a server.  

For later versions we will add some privacy options to give users more
fine-grained controlled over this process.  For now, treat any traffic
travelling between Switzerland clients as "public record" information.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
What are the Security implications of running Switzerland?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Switzerland is currently an alpha release of a client / server network
application.  It may contain bugs that would allow a hacker to break into a
computer.  Do not run it on a computer that stores sensitive data, or on a
computer that conatins data that has not been backed up.
